Add optional high availability feature for registry cache (#298)
gardener/gardener-extension-registry-cache: docs/usage/registry-cache/configuration.md

The `providerConfig.caches[].proxy.httpsProxy` field represents the proxy server for HTTPS connections which is used by the registry cache. It must include an `https://` or `http://` scheme.

> The `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability` defines if the StatefulSet is scaled to 2 replicas. See [Increase the cache disk size](#high-availability) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability` defines if the registry cache is scaled to 2 replicas. See [High Availability](#high-availability) for more information.
```

## High Аvailability

Per default the registry cache runs with a single replica. This fact may lead to concerns for the high availability such as "What happens when the registry cache is down? Does containerd fail to pull the image?". As outlined in the [How does it work? section](#how-does-it-work), containerd is configured to fall back to the upstream registry if it fails to pull the image from the registry cache. Hence, when the registry cache is unavailable, the containerd's image pull operations are not affected because containerd falls back to image pull from the upstream registry.

> In special cases where this is not enough (for example when using the registry cache with a proxy) it is possible to set `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability` to `true`, this will add the label `high-availability-config.resources.gardener.cloud/type=server` and scale the statefulset to 2 replicas. The `topologySpreadConstraints` is added according to the cluster configuration. See also [High Availability of Deployed Components](https://gardener.cloud/docs/gardener/high-availability/#system-components).

Reviewer: I would make sense to clarify that the replicas will use different volumes.

Author: I added this to the docs.

> In special cases where this is not enough (for example when using the registry cache with a proxy) it is possible to set `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability` to `true`, this will add the label `high-availability-config.resources.gardener.cloud/type=server` and scale the statefulset to 2 replicas. The `topologySpreadConstraints` is added according to the cluster configuration. See also [High Availability of Deployed Components](https://gardener.cloud/docs/gardener/high-availability/#system-components).

Author: In my example I mean if the upstream registry is only accessible via a proxy no image can be pulled i the cache is not reachable.

> In special cases where this is not enough (for example when using the registry cache with a proxy) it is possible to set `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability` to `true`, this will add the label `high-availability-config.resources.gardener.cloud/type=server` and scale the statefulset to 2 replicas. The `topologySpreadConstraints` is added according to the cluster configuration. See also [High Availability of Deployed Components](https://gardener.cloud/docs/gardener/high-availability/#system-components).

Reviewer: Is my understanding correct that:
- When using a registry behind a proxy it is not easy/possible to set http proxy settings to containerd. And with this feature, you would like to run the registry cache with 2 replicas and with this you would reduce the probability of having the registry-cache down and prevent containerd from falling back to the upstream.

?

If that is the case, I am not sure if it is a good solution to the problem. 

How the initial Shoot creation with enabled registry-cache extension works in the case containerd is not able to fall back to the upstream? As described in https://github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-registry-cache/blob/main/docs/usage/registry-cache/configuration.md#limitations, we cannot cache all images from Shoot system components (because of the design decision that the registry-cache runs in the cluster and requires the Pod and Service network to be set up). If you create a Shoot with enabled registry-cache extension for such an upstream, and if indeed containerd cannot fall back to the upstream due to missing http proxy config, then Shoot creation wouldn't work.

The registry caches also rely on volumes. Having attach/detach issues with the volume would again lead to not having a running registry cache Pod and would again lead to image pull failures from containerd.

Let me know if my assumptions are correct.

If yes, IMO it would make much more sense to set http proxy settings to containerd instead of enabling HA for the registry cache StatefulSet.

> In special cases where this is not enough (for example when using the registry cache with a proxy) it is possible to set `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability` to `true`, this will add the label `high-availability-config.resources.gardener.cloud/type=server` and scale the statefulset to 2 replicas. The `topologySpreadConstraints` is added according to the cluster configuration. See also [High Availability of Deployed Components](https://gardener.cloud/docs/gardener/high-availability/#system-components).

Author: > When using a registry behind a proxy it is not easy/possible to set http proxy settings to containerd. And with this feature, you would like to run the registry cache with 2 replicas and with this you would reduce the probability of having the registry-cache down and prevent containerd from falling back to the upstream.

I would say yes.

> How the initial Shoot creation with enabled registry-cache extension works in the case containerd is not able to fall back to the upstream?
Correct this will not work if the cache would be needed for shoot creation. Especially for the gardener-node-agent image (which only would work with settings via the inital OSC). But in our usecase this registry cache is used by the cluster owners which needs the registry for their deployments. All container images that are needed for the cluster itself are in a dedicated registry which is reachable from the nodes without proxy.

> If yes, IMO it would make much more sense to set http proxy settings to containerd instead of enabling HA for the registry cache StatefulSet.
I think it is still valid to use the registry cache in that scenario. Proxy settings within the containerd can be valid but this is not easy/possible to set in all configuration. Especially if not all registries are reachable via the proxy, as you would need to add all registries which are reachable without proxy to the `NO_PROXY` variable.

> In special cases where this is not enough (for example when using an upstream which is only accessible with a proxy) it is possible to set `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability` to `true`, this will add the label `high-availability-config.resources.gardener.cloud/type=server` and scale the statefulset to 2 replicas. The `topologySpreadConstraints` is added according to the cluster configuration. See also [High Availability of Deployed Components](https://gardener.cloud/docs/gardener/high-availability/#system-components). Each registry cache replica uses an own volume, so each registry cache needs to pull the image from upstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In special cases where this is not enough (for example when using an upstream which is only accessible with a proxy) it is possible to set `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability.enabled` to `true`. This will add the label `high-availability-config.resources.gardener.cloud/type=server` to the StatefulSet and it will be scaled to 2 replicas. Appropriate [Pod Topology Spread Constraints](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/topology-spread-constraints/) will be added to the registry cache Pods according to the Shoot cluster configuration. See also [High Availability of Deployed Components](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/development/high-availability-of-components.md#system-components). Each registry cache replica uses an own volume, so each registry cache needs to pull the image from the upstream.
```

Few nits:
- The field name is now `providerConfig.caches[].highAvailability.enabled`
- We link gardener/gardener docs via github, not website (gardener.cloud) - see https://github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-registry-cache/pull/158
- Other working suggestions
